h2. My Shopping List

This is a demo app for mobiles written using "Flask":http://flask.pocoo.org/ and "jQuery Mobile":http://jquerymobile.com. The backend storage is "MongoDB":http://www.mongodb.org.

The app allows you to check and edit some shopping lists from your mobile phone! So if your fellow file it from home, you'll have it at your fingers later, when at the mall!

It has been deployed on "OpenShift":http://openshift.redhat.com which offers MongoDB instances for free, as well as support for any Python WSGI app. Flask is installed using virtualenv.

h3. Deployment notes

You can fork and publish the app on OpenShift with few easy steps. Fork the repo first, then:

pre. $ git clone git@github.com:username/openshift-myshoppinglist.git

Create the application on OpenShift and look at the git details:

pre. $ rhc-create-app -a shoppinglist -n -t python-2.6 -l $USERNAME

add the mongodb cartridge:

pre. $ rhc-ctl-app -l $USERNAME -a myshoppinglist -e add-mongodb-2.0

check the remote git repo url:

pre. $ rhc-domain-show -l $USERNAME

look for something like this:

pre. myshoppinglist
    Framework: python-2.6
     Creation: 2012-02-22T01:56:07-05:00
         UUID: c23047569631453e9c817350f745325e
      Git URL: ssh://c23047569631453e9c817350f745325e@myshoppinglist-blablabla.rhcloud.com/~/git/myshoppinglist.git/
   Public URL: http://myshoppinglist-blablabla.rhcloud.com/

add the remote git repo to the existing ones with a command like:

pre. $ git remote add openshift ssh://c23047569631453e9c817350f745325e@myshoppinglist-blablabla.rhcloud.com/~/git/myshoppinglist.git/

and then push the changes

pre. $ git push openshift

that's all! your database connectivity is guaranteed by the following environment variables defined on the OpenShift servers:

pre. dbhost = os.environ['OPENSHIFT_NOSQL_DB_HOST']
dbport = int(os.environ['OPENSHIFT_NOSQL_DB_PORT'])
dbuser = os.environ['OPENSHIFT_NOSQL_DB_USERNAME']
dbpass = os.environ['OPENSHIFT_NOSQL_DB_PASSWORD']

if you choose the give the app a different name, don't forget to reflect the changes in the 'application' file where, by default, the database opened is called 'myshoppinglist'.

Enjoy!